# Project Overview

This project is called "emergent creature". I experiment with the questions around how living beings are composed of smaller parts, and compose bigger entities. 
It is the reincarnation of my bachelor's thesis. My goal is to publish the project through a peer-reviewed platform. To do so I would need to revise my thesis manuscript with a sharper biological question, a more thorough simulation data collection, and an empirically grounded analysis. My research practice involves iterative development of the model, and getting content feedback from related theory researchers.

# Topic Introduction
Leibnitz's description of an living organism is “an organism is a machine in which each part is a machine”. For example, fish in a flock are an assemblage of tissues made of cells, which are further decomposable into molecules and particles. 
I started with a simple model of a counting-based interaction between individuals that can give rise to "flocks" in one dimension. I then move onto two dimensions, and represent environmental information through a difference in "informedness" in the individuals. This setting served as an interesting extension to previous studies (Kao & Couzin, 2019), where they examined the effect of groupsize on the efficiency of information spread in static systems, now we consider the scenario of the individuals moving and swarming. Preliminarily we saw a difference in results -- being able to move forms a feedback loop between information and position, which made clusters less good at spreading the informed individual's directional signals. I find this result confusing and would like to firstly check for mistakes, then interpret the more accountable results.  
The overall approach in this research field is to take field observations, in cells or animals, then translating them into mathematical models, and conducting computational analysis through simulation and data comparison. In the data comparison step, I would be interested to examine qualitative data from cell collective behavior during morphogenesis (the development of a multicellular tissue that forms complex folds and bends). I would be curious of the similarity and differences at the animal flock level and the cell flock level. 
